

## Intro

#### git add
> Add files from the working directory to the staging index

#### git commit
> Takes files from the staging index and save them in the repository

#### git diff 
> Displays the diffence between two versions of a file



## Git Add

### Move to Correct Project

If you've been following along, you should have two different directories with Git projects on your computer:

* new-git-project - an empty directory that you converted to a Git repository using git init

* course-git-blog-project - an existing blog project you retrieved using git clone

To avoid any confusion with existing commits, we'll be making our commits to the new-git-project Git repository.


On the Terminal, make sure you cd into the new-git-project directory. If you don't have a new-git-project directory, create it now. Once you're inside the directory, run the git init command. If you've already run git init before it's ok – running git init multiple times doesn't cause any problems since it just re-initializes the Git directory.

### Big Picture Review
That's really cool, isn't it! We haven't done anything specific with Git just yet, but it's watching this directory (since it's a Git project), and it knows that we've created a couple of new files. What's also pretty neat about the output of the git status command is that it's telling us that the files are untracked by Git.

Let's do a quick review of what's going on and what we're about to do:

* we have some new files that we want Git to start tracking
* for Git to track a file, it needs to be committed to the repository
* for a file to be committed, it needs to be in the Staging Index
* the git add command is used to move files from the Working Directory to the Staging Index
* there are currently three, untracked files in the Working Directory
> * index.html
> * app.css in the css directory
> * app.js in the js directory


So the first step to getting any files committed to the repository is to add them from the Working Directory to the Staging Index. We will be using the git add command to move all three of these files to the Staging Index.

### Staging Files
Alrighty, it's go time! Run the following command on the Terminal which uses git add to add index.html to the Staging Index:

    $ git add index.html

### Changes To Be Committed
There's now a new section in the output of git status - the "Changes to be committed" area! This new "Changes to be committed" section displays files that are in the Staging Area! Right now it only displays the index.html file, so this file is the only item on the Staging Index. To continue this train of thought, if we made a commit right now, only the index.html file would be committed.

> TIP: Did you also notice the helpful text that's located just beneath "Changes to be committed"? It says (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage) This is a hint of what you should do if you accidentally ran git add and gave it the wrong file.

> As a side note, git rm --cached is not like the shell's rm command. git rm --cached will not destroy any of your work; it just removes it from the Staging Index.

> Also, this used the word "unstage". The act of moving a file from the Working Directory to the Staging Index is called "staging". If a file has been moved, then it has been "staged". Moving a file from the Staging Index back to the Working Directory will unstage the file. If you read documentation that says "stage the following files" that means you should use the git add command.

### Stage Remaining Files
The index.html file has been staged. Let's stage the other two files. Now we could run the following:

    $ git add css/app.css js/app.js

...but that's a lot of extra typing. We could use a special command line character to help:

### The Period .
The period refers to the current directory and can be used as a shortcut to refer to all files and directories (including all nested files and directories!).

    $ git add css/app.css js/app.js
    # would become
    $ git add .


## Git Commit

If you did configure your editor, then go ahead and make a commit using the git commit command:

    $ git commit
   

### Terminal Hangs
If you switch back to the Terminal for a quick second, you'll see that the Terminal is chillin' out just waiting for you to finish with the code editor that popped up. You don't need to worry about this, though. Once we add the necessary content to the code editor and finally close the code editor window, the Terminal will unfreeze and return to normal.

### Code Editor Commit Message Explanation
Switch back to the code editor. Here's what's showing in my editor:

    # Please enter the commit message for your changes. Lines starting
    # with '#' will be ignored, and an empty message aborts the commit.
    # On branch master
    #
    # Initial commit
    #
    # Changes to be committed:
    #    new file:   css/app.css
    #    new file:   index.html
    #    new file:   js/app.js
    #



The first paragraph is telling us exactly what we need to do - we need to supply a message for this commit. Also, any line that begins with the # character will be ignored. Farther down it says that this will be the initial commit. Lastly, it's giving us a list of the files that will be committed.

Since this is the very first commit of the repository, we'll use the commit message "Initial commit". The text "Initial commit" isn't special, but it's the de facto commit message for the very first commit. If you want to use something else, feel free!

Type out your commit message on the first line of the code editor:

### Finish Committing
Now save the file and close the editor window (closing just the pane/tab isn't enough, you need to close the code editor window that the git commit command opened).

### Bypass The Editor With The -m Flag
TIP: If the commit message you're writing is short and you don't want to wait for your code editor to open up to type it out, you can pass your message directly on the command line with the -m flag:

    $ git commit -m "Initial commit"

In the example above, the text "Initial commit" is used as the commit message. Be aware that you can't provide a description for the commit, only the message part.

### 2nd Commit - Add Changes
We've had a short breather, so let's make a second commit! Here, add this just inside the body tag in index.html:

    <header>
        <h1>Expedition</h1>
    </header>
Ok, now what do you do next? That's right, it's our good old friend git status!

### Multipurpose Git Add
So we've modified our file. Git sees that it's been modified. So we're doing well so far. Now remember, to make a commit, the file or files we want committed need to be on the Staging Index. What command do we use to move files from the Working Directory to the Staging Index? You got it - git add!

Even though we used git add to add newly created files to the Staging Index, we use the same command to move modified files to the Staging Index.

Use the git add command to move the file over to the Staging Index, now. Verify that it's there with git status.

### Second Commit
Now that we have a file with changes we can commit, let's make our second commit! Use the git commit command to make a commit. Use the commit message Add header to blog.

Now you might be asking yourself, "Why did Richard pick that as the commit message to use?" or "What makes a good commit message?". These are fantastic questions that we'll be looking at in the next concept!

### What To Include In A Commit
I've been telling you what files to create, giving you the content to include, and telling you when you should make commits. But when you're on your own, how do you know what you should include in a commit and when/how often you should make commits?

#### The goal is that each commit has a single focus. 
Each commit should record a single-unit change. Now this can be a bit subjective (which is totally fine), but each commit should make a change to just one aspect of the project.

Now this isn't limiting the number of lines of code that are added/removed or the number of files that are added/removed/modified. Let's say you want to change your sidebar to add a new image. You'll probably:

* add a new image to the project files
* alter the HTML
* add/modify CSS to incorporate the new image

A commit that records all of these changes would be totally fine!

Conversely, a commit shouldn't include unrelated changes - changes to the sidebar and rewording content in the footer. These two aren't related to each other and shouldn't be included in the same commit. Work on one change first, commit that, and then change the second one. That way, if it turns out that one change had a bug and you have to undo it, you don't have to undo the other change too.

The best way that I've found to think about what should be in a commit is to think, "What if all changes introduced in this commit were erased?". If a commit were erased, it should only remove one thing.


## Commit Messages

### Good Commit Messages

#### Do

* do keep the message short (less than 60-ish characters)
* do explain what the commit does (not how or why!)

#### Do not

* do not explain why the changes are made (more on this below)
* do not explain how the changes are made (that's what git log -p is for!)
* do not use the word "and"
   * if you have to use "and", your commit message is probably doing too many changes - break the changes into separate commits
   * e.g. "make the background color pink and increase the size of the sidebar"


The best way that I've found to come up with a commit message is to finish this phrase, "This commit will...". However, you finish that phrase, use that as your commit message.

Above all, be consistent in how you write your commit messages!

### Explain the Why
If you need to explain why a commit needs to be made, you can!

When you're writing the commit message, the first line is the message itself. After the message, leave a blank line, and then type out the body or explanation including details about why the commit is needed (e.g. URL links).

This details section of a commit message _is_ included in the git log. To see a commit message with a body, check out the Blog project repo and look at commit 8a11b3f.

Only the message (the first line) is included in git log --oneline, though!

### Udacity's Commit Style Requirements
As I've mentioned, there are a number of ways to write commit messages. If you're working on a team, they might already have a predetermined way of writing commit messages. Here at Udacity, we have our own standard for commit messages. You can check it out on our Git Commit Message Style Guide. (https://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/)


## Git Diff

### git diff
The git diff command can be used to see changes that have been made but haven't been committed, yet.

    $ git diff

To see git diff in action, we need some uncommitted changes! In index.html, let's reword the heading. Change the heading from "Expedition" to "Adventure". Save the file and run git diff on the Terminal.

https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff

## Having Git Ignore Files

### Why Should Files Be Ignored
Remember a couple sections back when we were learning about git add? Instead of adding the files one by one, there was a special character that we could use to indicate the current directory and all subdirectories. Do you remember what that character is?

That's right, the period (.)!

#### The Problem
Let's say you add a file like a Word document to the directory where your project is stored but don't want it added to the repository. (You can simulate adding a Word document by running touch project.docx) Git will see this new file, so if you run git status it'll show up in the list of files.
The potential problem with having this file in your project is that, because git add . adds all files, the Word document might get accidentally committed to the repository.

### Git Ignore
If you want to keep a file in your project's directory structure but make sure it isn't accidentally committed to the project, you can use the specially named file, .gitignore (note the dot at the front, it's important!). Add this file to your project in the same directory that the hidden .git directory is located. All you have to do is list the names of files that you want Git to ignore (not track) and it will ignore them.

### Globbing Crash Course
Let's say that you add 50 images to your project, but want Git to ignore all of them. Does this mean you have to list each and every filename in the .gitignore file? Oh gosh no, that would be crazy! Instead, you can use a concept called globbing.

Globbing lets you use special characters to match patterns/characters. In the .gitignore file, you can use the following:

* blank lines can be used for spacing
* # - marks line as a comment
* * - matches 0 or more characters
* ? - matches 1 character
* [abc] - matches a, b, _or_ c
* ** - matches nested directories - a/**/z matches
  * a/z
  * a/b/z
  * a/b/c/z
So if all of the 50 images are JPEG images in the "samples" folder, we could add the following line to .gitignore to have Git ignore all 50 images.

### Further Research
Ignoring files from the Git Book (https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Recording-Changes-to-the-Repository#Ignoring-Files)
gitignore from the Git Docs (https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore#_pattern_format)
Ignoring files from the GitHub Docs (https://help.github.com/en/articles/ignoring-files)
gitignore.io (https://www.gitignore.io/)



























