## Intro

### git tag
> Add tags to specific commits

### git branch
> Allows multiple lines of developmet

### git checkout
> Switch between different bracnches and tag

### git merge
> Combines changes on diffrent branches



## Tagging

### Git Tag Command
Pay attention to what's shown (just the SHA and the commit message)

The command we'll be using to interact with the repository's tags is the git tag command:

    $ git tag -a v1.0

This will open your code editor and wait for you to supply a message for the tag. How about the message "Ready for content"?

? CAREFUL: In the command above (git tag -a v1.0) the -a flag is used. This flag tells Git to create an annotated flag. If you don't provide the flag (i.e. git tag v1.0) then it'll create what's called a lightweight tag.

>Annotated tags are recommended because they include a lot of extra information such as:
>
> * the person who made the tag
> * the date the tag was made
> * a message for the tag

>Because of this, you should always use annotated tags.

### Git Log's --decorate Flag
As you've learned, git log is a pretty powerful tool for letting us check out a repository's commits. We've already looked at a couple of its flags, but it's time to add a new one to our toolbelt. The --decorate flag will show us some details that are hidden from the default view.

Try running git log --decorate now!

> 💡 --decorate Flag Changes in Git 2.13 💡
>In the 2.13 update to Git, the log command has changed to automatically enable the --decorate flag. This means that you do not need to include the --decorate flag in your command, since it is automatically included, anyway! So the following commands result in the exact same output:

    $ git log --decorate
    $ git log


### Deleting A Tag
What if you accidentally misspelled something in the tag's message, or mistyped the actual tag name (v0.1 instead of v1.0). How could you fix this? The easiest way is just to delete the tag and make a new one.

A Git tag can be deleted with the -d flag (for delete!) and the name of the tag:

    $ git tag -d v1.0


### Adding A Tag To A Past Commit
Running git tag -a v1.0 will tag the most recent commit. But what if you wanted to tag a commit that occurred farther back in the repo's history?

All you have to do is provide the SHA of the commit you want to tag!

    $ git tag -a v1.0 a87984


## Branching

### The git branch command
The git branch command is used to interact with Git's branches:

    $ git branch

It can be used to:

* list all branch names in the repository
* create new branches
* delete branches

### Create A Branch
To create a branch, all you have to do is use git branch and provide it the name of the branch you want it to create. So if you want a branch called "sidebar", you'd run this command:

    $ git branch sidebar


### The git checkout Command
Remember that when a commit is made that it will be added to the current branch. So even though we created the new sidebar, no new commits will be added to it since we haven't switched to it, yet. If we made a commit right now, that commit would be added to the master branch, not the sidebar branch. We've already seen this in the demo, but to switch between branches, we need to use Git's checkout command.

    $ git checkout sidebar

It's important to understand how this command works. Running this command will:

* remove all files and directories from the Working Directory that Git is tracking
  * (files that Git tracks are stored in the repository, so nothing is lost)
* go into the repository and pull out all of the files and directories of the commit that the branch points to

So this will remove all of the files that are referenced by commits in the master branch. It will replace them with the files that are referenced by the commits in the sidebar branch. This is very important to understand, so go back and read these last two sentences.

### Branches In The Log
The branch information in the command prompt is helpful, but the clearest way to see it is by looking at the output of git log. But just like we had to use the --decorate flag to display Git tags, we need it to display branches.

    $ git log --oneline --decorate

### The Active Branch
The command prompt will display the active branch. But this is a special customization we made to our prompt. If you find yourself on a different computer, the fastest way to determine the active branch is to look at the output of the git branch command. An asterisk will appear next to the name of the active branch.

### Delete A Branch
A branch is used to do development or make a fix to the project that won't affect the project (since the changes are made on a branch). Once you make the change on the branch, you can combine that branch into the master branch (this "combining of branches" is called "merging" and we'll look at it shortly).

Now after a branch's changes have been merged, you probably won't need the branch anymore. If you want to delete the branch, you'd use the -d flag. The command below includes the -d flag which tells Git to delete the provided branch (in this case, the "sidebar" branch).

    $ git branch -d sidebar


One thing to note is that you can't delete a branch that you're currently on. So to delete the sidebar branch, you'd have to switch to either the master branch or create and switch to a new branch.


#### Further Research
Git Branching - Basic Branching and Merging from the Git Docs (https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging)
Learn Git Branching (https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
Git Branching Tutorial from the Atlassian Blog (https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches)

 
## Branching Effectively

First, make sure we're on the same page and have the same starter code. We're going to be working in the new-git-project project. The project has the following files:

* index.html
* css/app.css (empty)
* js/app.js (empty)

The CSS and JavaScript files are empty. Make sure the index file has the following content:

    <!doctype html>
    <html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>Blog Project</title>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
        <meta name="description" content="">
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/app.css">
    </head>
    <body>

        <header>
            <h1>Expedition</h1>
        </header>

        <div class="container">
            <main>

            </main>
        </div>

        <footer>
            Made with ♥ @ Udacity
        </footer>
        <script src="js/app.js"></script>
    </body>
    </html>



### The Game Plan
Right now we have all of our code on the master branch (which is the default branch). We're about to work with branches, by:

* adding content to them
* creating new branches
* switching back and forth between them


Let's use branches to make the following changes:

1. on the master branch - add a default color to the page
2. create a sidebar branch - create a sidebar for the page
3. on the master branch - change the heading of the page
4. on the sidebar branch - add more content to the sidebar
5. create a footer branch - add social links to the footer













































































