# Working With Remotes

## Intro

### Expected Knowledge
* creating repositories with git init and git clone
* reviewing repos with git status
* using git log and git show to review past commits
* being able to make commits with git add
* commit them to the repo with git commit
* you need to know about branching, merging branches together, and resolving merge conflicts
* and being able to undo things in Git:
  * git commit --amend to undo the most recent commit or to change the wording of the commit message
  * and git reset If you're comfortable with all of these, then you'll be good to go for this course.
  
  
  ## Remote Repositories
  
  ### Collaboration Setup
As a lone developer, you're probably comfortable working with a local repository. In this first lesson, we're going to talk about remote repositories and interacting with these remote repositories.

Let's say that you have a friend, we'll call her Farrin, and one day you two were together and you showed her what you've been working on. She had some ideas on features she could contribute to the project. But you don't want to give her your computer for her to make these changes, you want her to work on her computer. And, you don't want to have to wait for her to add these features, you want to keep working on the project and then just merge in her changes when she's finished. So how can we do that?

Well, let me tell you that emailing the project back and forth would be a maintenance nightmare after about two emails. You're already tracking your project with Git, so we'll use _it_ to manage everything.

So Farrin will work on the project on a specific branch and any changes she makes she'll add to that branch. While she's working in her branch, you'll work on the project but on your own specific branch. And then you can merge these branches together when you get the branch from Farrin.
  
  ### 💡 Always Use Topic Branches
> Remember that it's incredibly helpful to make all of your commits on descriptively named topic branches. Branches help isolate unrelated changes from each other.

> So when you're collaborating with other developers make sure to create a new branch that has a descriptive name that describes what changes it contains.
  
  
  
### git remote
> Manage Remote Repository

### git push 
> Send changes to the remote

### git pull
> retrieve updates from the remote


### What is a Remote Repository?
Git is a distributed version control system which means there is not one main repository of information. Each developer has a copy of the repository. So you can have a copy of the repository (which includes the published commits and version history) and your friend can also have a copy of the same repository. Each repository has the exact same information that the other ones have, there's no one repository that's the main one.

Up until this point, you have probably been only working locally on a local repository. A remote repository is the same Git repository like yours but it exists somewhere else.

### Ways to access a Remote

Remotes can be accessed in a couple of ways:

* with a URL
* path to a file system

Even though it's possible to create a remote repository on your file system, it's very rarely used. By far the most common way to access a remote repository is through a URL to a repository that’s out on the web.

The way we can interact and control a remote repository is through the Git remote command:

    $ git remote

### Why Multiple Remotes?
Why would you want to have multiple remote repositories? We'll look at this later but briefly, if you are working with multiple developers then you might want to get changes they're working on in their branch(es) into your project before they merge them into the master branch. You might want to do this if you want to test out their change before you decide to implement your changes.

Another example is if you have a project whose code is hosted on Github but deploys via Git to Heroku. You would have one remote for the master and one for the deployment.

### Make a Remote
Now that we've learned about the purpose of remote repositories, let's add a remote repository to our own local one.



## Add A Remote Repository

### The Git Remote Command
The git remote command will let you manage and interact with remote repositories.

    $ git remote


If you haven't configured a remote repository then this command will display nothing. One caveat to this is if you have cloned a repository. If you have, then your repository will automatically have a remote because it was cloned from the repository at the URL you provided. Let's look at a repository that has been cloned.

### Remote Shortnames
The output of git remote is just the word origin. Well that's weird. The word "origin", here, is referred to as a "shortname". A shortname is just a short and easy way to refer to the location of the remote repository. A shortname is local to the current repository (as in, your local repository). The word "origin" is the defacto name that's used to refer to the main remote repository. It's possible to rename this to something else, but typically it's left as "origin".

Why do we care about how easy it is to refer to a remote repositories location? Well as you'll soon find out we'll be needing the path to the remote repository in a lot of our commands. And it's a lot easier to use just a name rather than the entire path to the remote repository.

If you want to see the full path to the remote repository, then all you have to do is use the -v flag.

Here you can see that if the word origin is used, what actually is used is the path to https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse.git . It also might seem a little bit odd that there are now two remotes both of them "origin" and both going to the same URL. The only difference is right at the end: the (fetch) part and the (push) part

We'll be looking at both fetch and push in upcoming sections.

We've done enough looking for now. Let's do something active and create our own simple project and send it to a remote repository!


### README File Content
    # Travel Destinations

    A simple app to keep track of destinations I'd like to visit.


### HTML File Content
Add the following content to the index.html file:

    <!doctype html>
    <html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>Travels</title>
        <meta name="description" content="">
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/app.css">
    </head>
    <body>

        <div class="container">
            <div class="destination-container">
                <div class="destination" id="florida">
                    <h2>Florida</h2>
                </div>

                <div class="destination" id="paris">
                    <h2>Paris</h2>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>

    </body>
    </html>
    
### CSS File Content

Add the following information to the CSS file:

    html {
        box-sizing: border-box;
        height: 100%;
    }

    *,
    *::before,
    *::after {
        box-sizing: inherit;
    }

    body {
        display: flex;
        margin: 0;
        height: 100%;
    }

    .container {
        margin: auto;
        padding: 1em;
        width: 80%;
    }

    .destination-container {
        display: flex;
        flex-flow: wrap;
        justify-content: center;
    }

    .destination {
        background: #03a9f4;
        box-shadow: 0 1px 9px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.4);
        color: white;
        margin: 0.5em;
        min-height: 200px;
        flex: 0 1 200px;
        display: flex;
        justify-content: center;
        align-items: center;
        text-align: center;
    }

    h2 {
        margin: 0;
        transform: rotate(-45deg);
        text-shadow: 0 0 5px #01579b;
    }

    #florida {
        background-color: #03a9f4;
    }

    #paris {
        background-color: #d32f2f;
    }

At this point this is what my project looks like but remember your project can be anything you want you just need to make sure you have a project with some commits in it.



### Hosting on GitHub
There are several options for us to host Git projects. But one of the most popular hosting sites is a service called GitHub which you might have heard of before. Now the problem with GitHub is that the name is so similar to Git that people sometimes conflate Git and GitHub and think they're the same thing when they're actually quite different.

* Git is a version control tool
* GitHub is a service to host Git projects

If you are already familiar with GitHub and know how to create a repo without initializing a README, you can skip this video and go ahead and make your repo with the same name as your sample project, and remember not to initialize a readme.

If you don't have an account yet, sign up for one on GitHub's join page. There are different types of GitHub accounts you can sign up for but the free tier is all that we need for this course. 

The important thing we need to look at right now is how to create a new Repository. There are actually two ways to do this from the homepage:

1. from the navbar
2. the green "new repository" button part way down the page on the right side

Typically you want to use the name of your project as the name of the repository. Creating a repository, modifying it later, or deleting it is relatively easy so don't feel like you have to get the name perfect right here on this page. I'm going to create a repository called "my-travel-plans" that's the same name as the sample project I created.

It's okay to leave the description empty for now (although, you can provide one if you want). Because I'm on the free tier plan, my repository has to be public (which means my repository and all my code will be freely available for anyone to look at). If I want this to be a private repository, then I'd choose "Private" which will cause GitHub to ask for my credit card information and will also upgrade me to a paid plan.

I'm also going to leave the "Initialize this repository with the README" option unchecked because I don't want GitHub to add a README file for me.

### ⚠️ Don't Initialize with a README ⚠️
Make sure that you leave the "Initialize this repository with the README" unchecked. We'll be providing our own README, so we don't want GitHub to provide one automatically.

Also, if we let GitHub auto-generate a new README file for us, then we won't be provided with the setup commands to run in the terminal. It's still possible to get that information, but it will be hidden away.

So just make sure to leave this field unchecked, and you'll be good to go!

Now just click that big "Create Repository" button to create your remote repository!

Remember that the git remote command is used to create and manage remote repositories. So I'll use the following command to create a connection from my local repository to the remote repository I just created on my GitHub account:

    $ git remote add origin https://github.com/richardkalehoff/RichardsFantasticProject.git


### ⚠️ Remotes & Permissions ⚠️
Warning: It's important that you use the URL for the new repository that you created on your GitHub profile. Do not use the one above because that's for the project I just created on _my_ account. Because this project is on _my_ account you do not have access to send changes to it.

So make sure you use the URL from your project.


There are a couple of things to notice about the command you just ran on the command line:

1. first, this command has the sub command add
2. the word origin is used - this is setting the shortname that we discussed earlier

* Remember that the word origin here isn't special in any way.
* If you want to change this to repo-on-GitHub, then (before running the command) just change the word "origin" to "repo-on-GitHub":

    $ git remote add repo-on-GitHub https://github.com/richardkalehoff/RichardsFantasticProject.git

3. third, the full path to the repository is added (i.e. the URL to the remote repository on the web)
Now I'll use git remote -v to verify that I've added the remote repository correctly

### Recap
A remote repository is a repository that's just like the one you're using but it's just stored at a different location. To manage a remote repository, use the git remote command:

    $ git remote
* It's possible to have links to multiple different remote repositories.
* A shortname is the name that's used to refer to a remote repository's location. Typically the location is a URL, but it could be a file path on the same computer.
* git remote add is used to add a connection to a new remote repository.
* git remote -v is used to see the details about a connection to a remote.


## Push Changes To A Remote

### Sending Commits
To send local commits to a remote repository you need to use the git push command. You provide the remote short name and then you supply the name of the branch that contains the commits you want to push:

    $ git push <remote-shortname> <branch>


My remote's shortname is origin and the commits that I want to push are on the master branch. So I'll use the following command to send my commits to the remote repository on GitHub:

    $ git push origin master


There a couple of things to notice:

* Depending on how you have configured GitHub and the remote URL that's being used, you might have to enter your username and password.
  * this will happen if you use the HTTP version of the remote (rather than the ssh version)
  * If you have configured GitHub to use the SSH protocol and have supplied it with your SSH key then you don't need to worry about doing this step. Check the Connecting to GitHub with SSH documentation page if you're interested in using SSH with GitHub.
* If you have to enter your username and password your username will show up after typing but your password will not. So just keep typing your password and press enter when you're done.
  * If you encounter any errors with your password don't worry it'll just ask you to type it in again
* Git does some compressing of things to make it smaller and then sends those off to the remote
* A new branch is created - at the very bottom it says [new branch] and then master -> master

GitHub also displays a lot of details about our Repository. Right now it's showing that there are:

* three commits
* one branch
* one contributor

### Recap
The git push command is used to send commits from a local repository to a remote repository.

$ git push origin master
The git push command takes:

* the shortname of the remote repository you want to send commits to
* the name of the branch that has the commits you want to send





## Pulling Changes From A Remote

### Pull changes from a remote
Let’s say that we are in a situation where there are commits on the remote repository that we do not have in our local repository. This can happen in several ways: You could be working on a team, and a co-worker has pushed new changes to the remote. Alternatively, you could be working on the same project but from different computers -- for example, say you have a work computer and a personal computer, and you contribute to the repo from both of them. If you push changes to the repo from your work computer, the local repo on your personal computer will not reflect those changes. How do we sync new changes that are on the remote into the local repository? That's exactly where we're going to be looking at now. Let's first look at how pulling in remote changes works in theory, then we'll actually do it ourselves!


I said it before but I'll say it again, the branch that appears in the local repository is actually tracking a branch in the remote repository (e.g. origin/master in the local repository is called a tracking branch because it's tracking the progress of the master branch on the remote repository that has the shortname "origin").

### Add remote changes
Since we don't have any commits on our remote repository yet and we're not collaborating with anybody we're going to fake it and add some commits manually through GitHub's interface on the web.

A walk-through video is below. Use the code snippets to follow along in the video.

### New CSS Content
Add the following new ruleset:

    .destination:hover h2 {
        transform: rotate(0deg);
    }

Add transition: transform 0.5s; to the h2 ruleset, so it should now be:

    h2 {
        margin: 0;
        transform: rotate(-45deg);
        transition: transform 0.5s;
        text-shadow: 0 0 5px #01579b;
    }

### ⚠️ Prefer Working Locally ⚠️
Because GitHub has a web interface, it allows you to add commits manually through its interface. But just because you can do a thing, doesn't mean you should. I've demoed making these changes this way so that we could simulate commits being on the remote repository but not in the local repository. But I recommend that you should always work locally on a project and then push those changes to the remote repository.


### Pulling Changes with git pull
The local commits end at commit 5a010d1 while the remote has two extra commits - commit 4b81b2a and commit b847434.

Also, notice that in our local repository when we did the git log the origin/master branch is still pointing to commit 5a010d1.

Remember that the origin/master branch is not a live mapping of where the remote's master branch is located. If the remote's master moves, the local origin/master branch stays the same. To update this branch, we need to sync the two together.

git push will sync the remote repository with the local repository. To do the opposite (to sync the local with the remote), we need to use git pull. The format for git pull is very similar to git push - you provided the shortname for the remote repository and then the name of the branch you want to pull in the commits.

    $ git pull origin master

There's several things to note about running this command:

* the format is very similar to that of git push - there's counting and compressing and packing of items
* it has the phrase "fast-forward" which means Git did a fast-forward merge (we'll dig into this in just a second)
  * it displays information similar to git log --stat where it shows the files that have been changed and how many lines were added or removed in them

If you don't want to automatically merge the local branch with the tracking branch then you wouldn't use git pull you would use a different command called git fetch. You might want to do this if there are commits on the repository that you don't have but there are also commits on the local repository that the remote one doesn't have either.

Let's take a look at git fetch.

### Recap
If there are changes in a remote repository that you'd like to include in your local repository, then you want to pull in those changes. To do that with Git, you'd use the git pull command. You tell Git the shortname of the remote you want to get the changes from and then the branch that has the changes you want:

    $ git pull origin master

When git pull is run, the following things happen:

* the commit(s) on the remote branch are copied to the local repository
* the local tracking branch (origin/master) is moved to point to the most recent commit
* the local tracking branch (origin/master) is merged into the local branch (master)
Also, changes can be manually added on GitHub (but this is not recommended, so don't do it).






