# Nanodegree Career Services

## Access the Career Portal

You’re in this Nanodegree program to take the next big step in your career - maybe you’re looking for a new job, or you’re learning new skills for your current job … or maybe you’re not sure what to do, but you know you need to make a career change.

Through your Career Portal, you can access a suite of Career Services:

* Personalized feedback on your resume, cover letter, LinkedIn profile, and (if applicable) GitHub profile.
* Curated tips and guides, on topics ranging from informational interviews to job boards, in your Career Track.
* A Udacity Profile that showcases all your skills — you’ll be able to join the Udacity Talent Program once you graduate and share your profile with employers.

### Your Career Portal
Your Career Track is where you read guides and tips to support your career development journey.

When you want a review of your job application or networking profiles, submit them in Career Services. You'll get honest, concise feedback from Career Coaches, including industry professionals (ie: marketing manager or software engineer).

The Udacity Careers team is here to help you figure out what you're looking for, plan for it, and work with you to ultimately move forward in your career development. You can always contact us at career-support@udacity.com.

Up next, find out more about the Udacity Talent Program and how to get noticed by employers looking to hire Udacity graduates!


## Prepare for the Udacity Talent Program
 
Through the Udacity Talent Program (https://www.udacity.com/get-hired), Nanodegree graduates can share their skills and experience with employers looking to specifically hire Udacity Talent. Employers can source through lists of Udacity graduates (stack ranked by skills) and reach out with invitations to apply to jobs.

In order to be a part of the Udacity Talent Program, you need to:

* Graduate from a Nanodegree program
* Complete your Udacity Profile
* Upload your resume to your Udacity Profile. While your Udacity Profile helps us share information with employers, they care most about your resume. Remember to take advantage of the Resume Review Career Service in your Career Portal.
* Toggle the share status of your profile to Public. Udacity won't share any of your information without your permission.

### How to Complete Your Udacity Profile
Once you are in your Career Portal, you can click on Edit Profile to upload a profile picture, add your preferred email to receive employer communications, and upload a resume. You can also set any work preferences to help with job matching.

#### How to Share Skills
Talent Program employers will see your profile tagged with Nanodegree program skills, and any skills you include in your resume. Remember to have a clear Skills section in your resume!

### Share with Employers Your Udacity Profile
Your profile will be shared with employers after graduation once you toggle the switch at the bottom on this page to Public. You can also turn off the sharing function at any time.
















