# Pix2Pix & CycleGAN


## Introducing Jun-Yan Zhu



Check out [MIT CSAIL's website](https://www.csail.mit.edu/) to look at the variety of research that is happening in this lab.



## Image to Image Translation


Image to image translation covers a variety of computer vision applications. that aim to look at an input image and produce a transformed image as output. In computer vision and deep learning, these applications include; semanetic segmentation, in which every pixel in the input image is labeled as a cast. person or background pixel and the edge of bounded detection. 

We often want to translate an image into a new domain with a desired property. For example, automatically colouring greyscale image or make a low-resolution image much sharper. These applications may look quite different at first glance but they share a common structure. One image as an input, and another the desired output. In other words, we are mapping an image from one domain to a new domain. 


### Links to Related Work
  * Ian Goodfellow's [original paper on GANs](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5423-generative-adversarial-nets.pdf)
  * Face swap with [CycleGAN Face-off](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1712.03451.pdf)
  
  

## Designing Loss Functions



### Objective Loss Functions

An objective function is typically a loss function that you seek to minimize (or in some cases maximize) during training a neural network. These are often expressed as a function that measures the difference between a prediction y_hat and a true target y.
  
The objective function we've used the most in this program is cross entropy loss, which is a negative log loss applied to the output of a softmax layer. 
  
  
  
  
## GANs, A Recap



### Latent Space

Latent means "hidden" or "concealed". In the context of neural networks, a latent space often means a feature space, and a latent vector is just a compressed, feature-level representation of an image!

For example, when you created a simple autoencoder, the outputs that connected the encoder and decoder portion of a network made up a compressed representation that could also be referred to as a latent vector.

You can read more about latent space in [this blog post] as well as an interesting property of this space: recall that we can mathematically operate on vectors in vector space and with latent vectors, we can perform a kind of feature-level transformation on an image!

> This manipulation of latent space has even been used to create an [interactive GAN, iGAN](https://github.com/junyanz/iGAN/blob/master/README.md) for interactive image generation! I recommend reading the paper, linked in the Github readme.


## Pix2Pix Generator



### Pix2Pix resources

If you're interested in learning more, take a look at the [original Pix2Pix paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.07004.pdf). I'd also recommend this related work on creating high-res images: [high resolution, conditional GANs](https://tcwang0509.github.io/pix2pixHD/wjsu).














