# Project : Improve Your Linkedln Profile


## 1. Get Opportunities with Linkedln


### Why Use LinkedIn for Networking?

Employers Flock to LinkedIn
[In the U.S. alone](https://economicgraph.linkedin.com/resources/linkedin-workforce-report-july-2018),

* 149 million workers have LinkedIn profiles.
* 20,000+ companies recruit on LinkedIn.
* Over 3 million jobs are posted a month.
Using LinkedIn is a smarter way to build your professional network. Did you know, [40% of jobs are hired through referrals](https://theundercoverrecruiter.com/infographic-employee-referrals-hire/)?! Ensure you're connecting with others across your field using LinkedIn - they'll help you find your next job and grow professionally.


### Resources

We recommend reviewing these resources before submitting for feedback to ensure your LinkedIn profile is ready for review.

1. [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/1910/view). Your project will be reviewed by a Udacity Career Reviewer against this rubric.

2. [Checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vRsryXtKM4HTYOujmTsGbU7JT0PSWcVq9xAQlXQEg00rLQMWplLQlxf3PYDIO0YycGduLpClN3f_RN-/pub?embedded=true). Based on the project rubric, this is a handy checklist to use during your LinkedIn building.
3. [Career Resource Center](https://career-resource-center.udacity.com/linkedin-github-profiles). Find additional tips and guides on developing your LinkedIn profile.

If you're looking for more guidance, continue on to the lesson to learn more about networking, personal branding, and LinkedIn profile best practices.


## Use Your Story to Stand Out

### How to Stand Out

__Imagine__: You're a hiring manager and need to pick 5 people to interview for a role. You get 50 applications, and everyone seems pretty qualified. How do you compare job candidates? You'll probably pick the candidates that stand out the most to you - likely the people who communicate their motivation and dedication for the job.

#### Personal Stories

A job candidate's personal story is always unique to them. Employers aren't just looking for someone with the skills, but for someone who can help drive the company's mission forward. That's why they need to know your work ethic and what drives you.

Personal stories are memorable. Connect with your potential boss or colleague by telling your personal story. You want employers to know how you solve problems, overcome challenges, and achieve results. You want employers to know what excites you, what motivates you, what drives you forward.

__All of this can be achieved through effective storytelling and building a personal brand.__

Meet Chris Saden, a software engineer at Udacity, who will share with us how he redefined his personal brand during a career change from admissions counselor to full stack engineer.


## Why use an Elevator Pitch


Elevator pitches were originally known as sales pitches and lived solely in the business world. However, they soon became popular across all industries because it was a way for people to quickly communicate the purpose and value of something. 
Elevator pitches also help outside of networking,, such as  in a job interview, when the employer asks you why you're applying or what you're interested in. 



## Create Your Eleveator Pitch


1. What did I want employers to know about me?
2. What was I most proud of?



## Use Your Elevator Pitch on Linkedln


### Communicate Your Elevator Pitch in your LinkedIn Summary

> Hi, I’m Chris, a Full Stack Software Engineer who loves building education products. I recently developed a web app using AngularJS that lets teachers share student writing samples anonymously. I’d love to combine my passion for learning and teaching with my software development skills to continue building personalized learning products for people.


Use the same talking points for your LinkedIn summary, which may be the first thing people read on your profile. When recruiters (or anyone else) search on LinkedIn, keywords from your summary contribute to your rank in search results.



#### LinkedIn Summary Guidelines
* Keep the summary to 3-5 points maximum.
* Use numbers where possible.
* Always use active instead of passive language.
* Include a call to action so that people are more likely to contact you for more information.



## Create Your Profile with SEO in Mind


### Keywords and SEO
As there are millions of LinkedIn users, you may be wondering how you stand out or are surfaced to recruiters. Below, we dive into the sections of your profile which are essential to SEO (search engine optimization - or optimizing your profile for searches on LinkedIn).

On your LinkedIn profile, more-so than on a resume or other application materials, it is helpful to use keywords specific to the job you are targeting. This is especially true of the words you include in your headline, summary, and current job title. Think of the words that a recruiter might type to search for candidates of your target job and check to ensure they're listed in your profile.


> Pro Tip: To find keywords to add, read job descriptions of positions you are targeting.




## Profile Essentials


### Spend some time getting these essentials right.

#### Name
Here you will need to use your real name, not a pseudonym. No `Codergirl42`, no `HireMe McJoberson`, just your real first and last name.

> Pro Tip: You can add former names to your Profile. See instructions from LinkedIn.

#### Profile Picture

##### Do
* Upload a picture cropped to your head and shoulders.
* Aim for a high resolution photo.

##### Don't
* No inappropriate or unprofessional items or environments.
* Don't include other people - this is your profile after all!
* No selfies. Someone is willing to take a photo for you, we promise!


#### Headline
Your headline should be one of the following options:

* __Your Current Job Title__. This is the simplest but most effective way to optimize SEO; LinkedIn even defaults to suggesting you do this.

* __Your Education__. If you do not yet have a job in your new industry, add your education such as "Data Analyst Nanodegree Graduate." You still include the key term "data analyst".

* __Your Target Job_. Remember when Chris said his job search improved when he finally called himself a software engineer? If you're a Nanodegree graduate with a portfolio of real-world projects to share, feel confident and list your target job title.



#### Summary
You should already have your summary, crafted from your elevator pitch, from the exercise with Chris. If you need a refresher, just go back to "Use Your Elevator Pitch on LinkedIn." Your summary should:

* Be written in first person, with a professional but conversational tone.
* Include your key abilities and contributions.
* Include 5 key skills (programming languages, software, etc.) for SEO purposes.




## Work Experiences & Accomplishments


### Showcase Successful Work Experiences
The Experience section of your LinkedIn profile should mirror your resume. Ensuring your resume and LinkedIn are consistent will help to build your personal brand.

In Udacity's [free course on resume writing](https://www.udacity.com/course/refresh-your-resume--ud243), we provide detailed guidance on how to describe your work experiences in a way that showcases success. Here are some guidelines to keep in mind for both resumes and LinkedIn profiles:

__Be concise.__

* Include only relevant experience.
* Keep each description to 3 bullet points or less.
* At least 1 of these bullet points should demonstrate an individual contribution.
* At least 1 of these bullet points should communicate a project result (success metrics, findings).


__Always convey [Action, Numbers, Success](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud243/lessons/db219674-a784-45f9-9829-d16a7a252bd0/concepts/3a826d6e-4610-4590-a896-20d2a2427f3e).__

* Action - Use active verbs to describe what you did.
* Numbers - Quantify your accomplishments.
* Success - Define each experience in terms of what you learned or achieved.

__Order matters.__

Make sure that your most relevant and most recent experience appears at the top of your profile.


### Accomplishments
You can adapt the "Accomplishments" section of your LinkedIn profile to a wide variety of work experiences and achievements. For example, the "Accomplishments" section for "Projects" is an excellent place to showcase your Udacity projects! You can also list the Udacity courses you have taken in the "Accomplishments" section for "Courses."

When describing your projects be sure to include the specific technical skills you learned relevant to your target field. Think about the parts of your Udacity projects that you are most proud of and frame them as successes in your project description. Here are a couple good examples from Udacity alums:

[Kristin, Virtual Reality Developer Nanodegree Program Alum](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kristindragos/) - Notice how Kristin uses the project section to showcase the technologies she has worked with (i.e. Unity, Oculus Rift). She also provides links to visuals for each project, so that it's easy for recruiters and connections to dive deeper into a project that piques their curiosity.

[Michael, Self Driving Car Nanodegree Program Alum](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-virgo/) - Notice how Michael uses the "Projects" section to include more details about his experience with autonomous vehicles, and highlights his use of particular models like convolutional neural networks.



## Build and Strengthen Your Network

### Find More Connections
In order to use your LinkedIn profile effectively, it's important to have as many connections as possible. In general, 500+ connections are needed to fully optimize your profile.

This may seem like a lot, but once you get rolling, you'll get to that number fast. After you actively start engaging on LinkedIn, by joining groups and going to networking events, your number of connections will climb. You are more likely to show up in search results on LinkedIn if you have more connections, which means you'll be more visible to recruiters.


Here are some examples of the types of connections you could add:

* current and former colleagues
* people you attended school with (high school, university, graduate school, Udacity)
* your favorite teachers and professors
* people you meet at professional events, like conferences and meetups
* volunteering companions
* friends and relatives
* roommates and neighbors


### Join Groups

Joining groups allows you to see content from and post content to people who share your interests. Join groups which relate to your industry, of professionals who live near you, or of people who attended the same alma mater. For example, it is common for people to join location-based professional groups, like the Chicago Young Professionals, or for Udacity students to join the Udacity Alumni Network. You might want to join groups associated with specific technologies, like Swift Developers, User Interface Design, or Self-Driving Cars.

Joining groups vastly increases the number of people in your network, increasing the visibility of your profile and the number of opportunities that come your way.




### Reaching Out on LinkedIn

Optimizing your LinkedIn Profile is important for showcasing yourself to any recruiter or employer. However, you can do more than passively wait for someone else to reach out.

After improving your LinkedIn Professional Profile, connect with other industry professionals via LinkedIn to set up an informational interview, learn about a position, or build new professional relationships.

Example LinkedIn Conversation
Platforms like LinkedIn make it easy for people to find and connect with each other. When you connect with someone, make sure to write a note in the request. You only have 300 characters in a connection request to make a first great impression. Below is an example of how you might request an informational interview.

Don't forget: It's expected that one will receive connection requests through LinkedIn. There's no reason to think you're inconveniencing the other person. Like you, other people are interested in improving professionally, which can revolve around sharing their own experiences and knowledge or discussing current topics of interest in the industry.

Not sure how to start making connections? Review our advice in the Career Resource Center on how to successfully request and conduct an informational interview.

You may feel nervous or unsure at first, but with practice and frequent networking interactions, you will soon become a networking pro.


## Boost Your Visibility

### You've optimized your profile. What's next?
Creating a killer profile is a key first step toward building a strong LinkedIn presence, but there is a lot more you can do to nurture your connections and make your profile easy to find. Here are some of the avenues LinkedIn provides to engage with your professional community.

#### Follow
Follow the influential companies in your target field to stay informed about new discoveries, trends, and current events in your professional sphere. Identify companies where you can imagine working, and follow those too; you'll see job posts sooner and you'll be more likely to show up in their recruiters' searches.

#### Post, Like, and Comment
Authoring original posts is a fantastic way to boost your visibility, but if you are a little shy about posting at first, don't worry. Plenty of people get meaningful value out of LinkedIn without authoring posts. You can also engage by liking and commenting; these small actions can go a long way toward boosting your visibility.

#### Endorse and Recommend
There are so many good reasons to endorse and recommend on LinkedIn. Effective team players recognize the contributions of others. By endorsing and recommending current and former colleagues you can show future coworkers that you are capable of acknowledging your teammates. This acknowledgement will also deepen your relationship with the colleagues and collaborators you endorse, not to mention it will increase the likelihood of someone acknowledging you in return.

Here's a profile from Mike, a former Udacity employee. Take a look at his "Recommendations" section. Notice that he has received and given multiple recommendations. Not only does this give us a window into working with Mike, but it shows that he's a colorful and clear communicator.


## UP NEXT

By now, you know how to:

* Market yourself effectively with your elevator pitch.
* Optimize the essential LinkedIn profile components.
* Effectively describe your work experience and projects.
* Create a strong network by adding connections and joining groups.
* Raise your LinkedIn visibility.


Being confident in this will help you network naturally, whether on LinkedIn or at an event in-person.


If you are seeking additional advice on how to enhance your LinkedIn profile, check out the following resources:

* [How to Stand Out on LinkedIn](https://career-resource-center.udacity.com/linkedin-github-profiles/how-to-stand-out-on-linkedin)
* [Tips for building a great LinkedIn Profile](https://blog.linkedin.com/2017/february/17/-tips-for-building-a-great-linkedin-profile-career-expert)
* [Land a Great Job with LinkedIn](https://courses.breakinto.tech/courses/linkedin?coupon=udacious)
* [31 Tips for LinkedIn](https://www.themuse.com/advice/the-31-best-linkedin-profile-tips-for-job-seekers)


Move on to the LinkedIn Profile Career Service Review and get personalized feedback on your online presence!
