# Project : Optimize Your GitHub Profile


## Prove Your Skills With GitHub


### The Tech World Has Adopted GitHub

In 2017, [GitHub saw](https://octoverse.github.com/):

* 1.5 million organizations using the platform
* 24 million users across 200 countries, from entrepreneurs to open source contributors to company employees
* 25.3 million active repositories
* 47 million pull requests, which means people and organizations are working together

Software engineers, developers, and data scientists at most companies use GitHub daily to house their work, read each other's documentation, and collaborate across teams and organizations.

Recruiters, hiring managers, and senior engineers search through GitHub for potential job candidates. Your GitHub profile - activity, repos, commits, documentation - provides evidence that you're a skilled engineer.

> Udacity graduate Ryan Waite was [hired](https://blog.udacity.com/2016/03/student-success-ryan-waite-goes-to-nasa-and-beyond.html) based on the strength of his GitHub profile.

### No Resubmission Required
Unlike other Nanodegree projects, you submit to a Career Service once to get feedback and do not need to meet specifications to continue on in your program. We highly encourage you to take advantage of this guidance; most Alumni who report jobs and other opportunities (such as collaboration) attribute their success to networking.

#### Career Review Requirement

Your Nanodegree program was designed to ensure your long-term success in the field, and to pursue a successful career you must showcase the skills you’ve learned to employers effectively. Therefore, this is a requirement for graduation, unless you opt-out.

Opting Out
If improving your GitHub profile does not currently align with your Nanodegree goals, you may opt-out of this graduation requirement.


### Let's Get Started

Submit your GitHub profile and receive in-depth and honest feedback from a Career Reviewer. They'll ensure you're presenting your best self to the community.

[GET FEEDBACK](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/52/submit-link)


#### Resources

We recommend you review these resources to ensure your profile is ready for feedback.

1. [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/52/view). Your project will be reviewed by a Udacity Career Reviewer against this rubric.
2. [Checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a9AKnNyqfGgdQV5ohPCN5H9ntnEUhMptWMwVBWURCN0/pub?embedded=true). Based on the project rubric, this is a handy checklist on GitHub best practices.
3. [Career Resource Center](https://career-resource-center.udacity.com/linkedin-github-profiles). Find additional tips and guides on developing your GitHub Profile.

If you'd like more guidance, continue on to the lesson to learn more about GitHub best practices on commit style, forking and starring, READMEs, and more!




## Introduction 

Update yout Github profile for use a a portfolio of your work.  

Impress recruiters by contributing to open source projects.  


* [Version Control with Git](https://www.udacity.com/course/version-control-with-git--ud123)
* [GitHub & Collaboration](https://www.udacity.com/course/github-collaboration--ud456)


## Github profile important items

[How to use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775)


## Good GitHub repository



## Writing READMEs with Walter
This is the link for [Writing READMEs with Walter.](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud777)

## Interview with Art

" What is your role as a hiring manager? "

> Well, as a hiring manager, it's collaborative role where I work with engineers on the team and leadership, and we sort of figure out what attributes do we value in engineers. We have amazing recruiters and HR peolpe. We work closely with them to sort of figure out how do we best screen for those attributes, and then of course, I spend a lot of time actually doing interviews. You know screening people, looking at people's Github repos, at their Linkedln's and what not and just trying to get a sense of the candidates and then making a hiring decision. 



" Why is the formatting of the commit message so important? " 

> I think that well formatted commit messages ,I find most important reasons to get going because as you go through digging through people's code or your own code trying to figure out what's wrong especially when you're looking for a bug. But somebody just want to kwno why a line of code is the way that it is. The first thing you're going to do is go and get blamed. And it's going to show you the commiter but also the commit message. And if that message is just like added stuff, it gives you no context for why the code changed, why it's there in the first place. And That's super important for you as you maintain your code down the line. It's super important for people that follow after you in maintain your code. I definitely when I look at candidates and when I dig through their Githun I check out to see sort of how thorough and well they communicate in their commit message.


" How you know if somebody is a good collaborator, because these candidates when they get their job, they have to work with other people on shared code basis. So How do you know from a GitHub profile if somebody is going to be good collaborator? " 

> So one thing I do to screen people for gow they'll work well in a team or how well they work on our team, is to sort of branch out from the GitHub Profile and maybe start with the issues on the repo that they've participated in and see how they've participated in those threads and if they've commented in on poll requests and whatnot and just get a sense for how they interact with other engineers in the repo. Particularly one thing that I think is really interesting is, whether they're patient with the kind of people who may be newer to the community and then from there, let's say you branch out and maybe find if there's an Internet Relay Chat channel that they may have been related to a repo and look at the logs and just see, are they're helpfulm are they kind, or are they patient and it's such an important signal because at the end of the day, you really want to hire people that are going to work well and be a good fit for your team. So yeah, I spend a lot of time doing that, just kind of digging in and seeing how they interact with other engineers publicly. 

 









## Commit messages best practices

As Art said, commit messages are essential for communicating why your code was changed. This is for your coworkers or collaborators, and also for your future self. Let’s go through some best practices for writing commit messages.

Here is the message format we use here at Udacity. You can find it [here](http://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/) for future reference.

    type: subject

    body

    footer

The first line is the subject. This should be a short description of what changed. Nothing like “fixed it” or “did something,” these need to be clear and informative, and try to avoid profanity. The subject should be 50 characters or less, with the first letter capitalized, and end without a period. At Udacity, we also include a short annotation about the type of the commit, if it is a bug fix, a feature, change to the documentation, etc.

The body is next, this is where you give a more detailed description of why you made the change. The body should typically have around 72 characters per line. This is to ensure that the message fits into a terminal window when using git on the command line. You’ll also need to make sure there is a blank line between the subject line and the body. You can also add bullet points, using asterisks or dashes, when you need to make a list.

Some commits don’t require a body in the message. If you fix a typo for example, it’s okay to only have a subject line.

You can also include a footer, typically this will be used to indicate which issues or bugs the commit addresses.


A more fleshed out example looks like this:


    feat: Summarize changes in around 50 characters or less

    More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72
    characters or so. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
    subject of the commit and the rest of the text as the body. The
    blank line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless
    you omit the body entirely); various tools like `log`, `shortlog`
    and `rebase` can get confused if you run the two together.

    Explain the problem that this commit is solving. Focus on why you
    are making this change as opposed to how (the code explains that).
    Are there side effects or other unintuitive consequences of this
    change? Here's the place to explain them.

    Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

     - Bullet points are okay, too

     - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded
       by a single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions
       vary here

    If you use an issue tracker, put references to them at the bottom,
    like this:

    Resolves: #123
    See also: #456, #789


This does come with an exception of course. If you are working on an open source project, be sure to follow the message format for that project. This will make the maintainers happy and increase the chance your pull request is accepted.


[Get Started With Open Source Projects](https://blog.udacity.com/2013/10/get-started-with-open-source-projects.html)






## Next Steps

__Apply these best GitHub practices moving forward and attract the attention of recruiters and senior software engineers.__


You'll want to:

* Commit every week, at minimum
* Get 2-4 weeks streaks

A personal side-project may grow into something bigger. You can't always predict what will catch the eye of a recruiter or senior software engineer, but when it does, you want to showcase your best work.

Continue building your knowledge of using GitHub and improving your profile, be sure to check out the "GitHub Professional Profile Resources" found in the Classroom folder under Lesson Resources.

Once you've implemented the necessary changes to make your profile more professional, remember to maintain activity by regularly making commits on GitHub.

Good luck!









