# Writing READMEs


## Welcome


Documenting Your Code

You'll learn what documenation is and why it's an important part of the development process and you'll be able to incorporate it into your projects moving forward. 


### What is Documentation ?

What is cookbook?

A cookbook is a way of documenting recipes, it helps us make sense of all the tools and ingredients in the kitchen. 

Technical documentation exists for a similiar purpose : To help us make sense of code. 

Check out the [Writing READMEs README](https://github.com/udacity/ud777-writing-readmes) over on GitHub.


## Who is Documentation for ?

### Who is Documentation For?
When you hear the phrase technical documentation you might think of dry literature that is difficult to understand. But good documentation isn't boring or unapproachable -- often it's written in plain English! Sometimes, it's even written as a series of guides or tutorials.

As it turns out, there isn't a secret ruling body that makes laws for what documentation should and shouldn't look like. That's because unlike your code which is written for computers documentation is written for humans. Documentation exists to help us make sense of the code that we've written, which may not always be quite as intuitive as we'd like it to be.

For instance if you're working a large open source library that other people can use, good documentation is absolutely essential for acquiring both users and contributors. If your documentation is good, people will want to use your library in their projects. If your documentation is great, people might even chip in and help you with your library.

Perhaps your project is a portfolio piece to help you land your first job. As a developer, in that case you'll want to document your work in a way an employer can easily skim and pull relevant information. Give some thought as to who is going to be reading your documentation. You'll want it to be easy for anyone to dive into your code and get it up and running without any hiccups!


## How Does Nija Consume Documentation?

" How do you consume documentation as part of an engineering team? " 

> We consume documentation everyday because we use third party libraries and tools. So one of the easiest thing to do is when we want to get up and running, we look for an example for how to do that in the documentation. 

" Would you do if you did not have this documentation available? "

> We would be very sad. Realistically, we may not use that library, or we may swithc to a library that is better documented. Or we might write our own internal documentation if that's really the library that we need to use. 

" How woud you figure out the code if the documentation wasn't there? "

> You'd have to dig through the source code a lot of the times, or examine it using a debugger. Or a number of other more advanced trouble-shooting tools. It's kind of like reverse engineering somebody else's thought process. 



## Why Should Art Have Documentation His Code?

Art, director of engineering at Udacity

" Tell me a time when you're really kicking yourself for not writing documentation."

> Feedbacks, early in my career, I was doing a project for a very sort of conservative stuffy investiment back on Wall Street. And I was doing the support screen that comes up like, if somebody that's using the app needs help, they click help and it comes up with a phone number. But we didn't yet have the phone number, so like a placehoder phone number. But I forgot to put in the readme, that somebody needed to update that before they shipped it. So I just put in the first thing that popped into my mind, which was 1900 of the name of the company. And I shipped it, I collect my fee, don't thinkg anything of it. Six months latter, I get his frantic call from the project manager. Freaking out because one of their customers had called the number, nobody ever updated the help number. This guy calls me up and he's like,  " why did you put an adult 900 number on help screen of our app? " Because I had forgotten to document that it was just a placeholder and somebody need to update it. 



## Indroduction to READMEs


### Anatomy of a README

Anatomy of a README
Consider three README's for three different projects below:

1. [factory_girl](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_bot)
2. [can.viewify](https://github.com/zkat/can.viewify)
3. [create-your-own-adventure](https://github.com/udacity/create-your-own-adventure)

As you examine each of the README's, take note of the following:

* What information is being communicated?
* How is this information structured?
* Do you notice any patterns?



## Anatomy of a README


Start with title and description

Next, include any information that is absolutely necessary for understanding your code. This may be dependencies on other software or libraries, installation, instructions, common usage, or known bugs. 



## Documenting a Growing Codebase


As your code base grows, you may find yourself needing to re-evaluate what information is essential for your documentation.
Deciding what goes into your readme is entirely up to you. But let's go over a few common sections and then use cases in a readme.


__Includiing copyright or licensing information__, or at least a link to it , is always a good idea, no matter how large or small a project.  By default, you retain full rights to your code even if you don't include a license, but it's a safer bet to be explicit about this.  

__Allow others to contribute to your project__. In this case it's important to include a license. 

__Breifly outline simple steps, a stlye guide or whatever information you'd like others know about contributing,__ is a great way to make your project more accessible for those wanting to help.

Some services, like ones that check to see if all your tests are passing,  will __provide special graphics, known as shields__, for your readme's . These shields are useful because they're provided by a third party, and let your users know helpful information about your code. 


As noted in the video above, feel free to use [Choose a License](https://choosealicense.com/) to help you, well... choose a license for your projects.



## Readable READMEs with Markdown

You'll be generating your README using language known as markdown. 

Markdown let's you generate well formatted READMEs by traslating them into HTML 

One of the main advantages to using markdown is that we can make READMEs that are easy to skim through.




## Basic Markdown Syntax

### Markdown 101
Markdown is a light markup language often used for READMEs (though you'll find other use cases for it, too!). It is fairly straightforward, and much of the syntax is intuitive.

But as it turns out, there are many different dialects of Markdown, just like in a spoken language. Each of these dialects is known as a flavor of Markdown. Most of these dialects are pretty much the same, with only minor differences.

Since your READMEs will ultimately end up on GitHub, we'll be using GitHub Flavored Markdown. I've included a link to the full documentation for it in the instructor notes (and we'll be using that later in this course), but I'll get you started with a quick crash course.

#### Feeling Bold?

To make text bold, surround it with double asterisks. So this code:

    Isn't today a **wonderful** day?

becomes: Isn't today a **wonderful** day?

This reads a bit more nicely than a `<strong>` tag would in HTML, and takes considerably fewer keystrokes to type out.

#### *Italics*, I tell you!
To italicize text, surround it with underscores. So this code:

And in that moment I thought to myself: _Did I turn off the stove?_
becomes: And in that moment I thought to myself:_ Did I turn off the stove?_

Much like the previous example, this code reads much more like English, which is great for when you're skimming the original document.

#### To code, or not to code?
Inline `code` is useful for indicating that you're writing code and not a regular word. For this, you'll surround text in backticks (\`, not a single quote). So this code:

    You should use the `strong` tag.

becomes: You should use the `strong` tag.

...which makes much more sense than "You should use the strong tag."

#### The Title Sequence

Headings are even simpler! For `h1` through `h6` tags, all you'll need is a `#` before your text. The number of `#`s you include tells Markdown which header tag you're using. For example:

'## This is an h2.'

'### This is an h3.'

becomes...

## This is an h2.
### his is an h3.

Let's practice!

  Here's a link to the basic [Markdown documentation](https://help.github.com/en/articles/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github). You can also check out the differences in GitHub flavored Markdown [here](https://help.github.com/en/categories/writing-on-github).




## More Markdown Syntax


### More Markdown
Now it's your turn. Dive into the [Markdown documentation](https://help.github.com/en/articles/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github), and explore more ways to write beautiful READMEs.

A few important items you may want to write and should pay extra attention to include:

* Ordered and unordered lists
* Links and images
* Large blocks of code

### HTML Is Still a Thing
S
omething to keep in mind when using Markdown is that HTML is still valid in Markdown. If there's ever something fancy you can't accomplish with just Markdown, it's okay to fall back to HTML.

The catch here is that you may be overcomplicating your life. If you need to fall back to plain HTML, there's a good chance that you could communicate whatever it is you are trying to say in a simpler format.


### Working with .md Files

Much like how your HTML files should be saved with a .html extension, your Markdown files should be saved with a .md extension.

Markdown itself can't be opened in the browser like an HTML document. If you want to preview your Markdown files, [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io/) is a great online resource for you to do so.

If you are using Sublime Text, there is a [plugin](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/GitHub%20Flavored%20Markdown%20Preview) you can download to let you preview Markdown files right on your computer. If you are using Atom text editor, Markdown preview is baked right into the program (in the 'Packages' menu).

  Here's a link to the basic [Markdown documentation](https://help.github.com/en/articles/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github). You can also check out the differences in GitHub flavored Markdown here.

  To preview Markdown in the browser, try [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io/).



## Markdown Syntax Practice

    <!-- 

    Copy this code into a text editor with Markdown preview,
    OR, you can use Dillinger (https://dillinger.io).

    Rewrite this HTML as Markdown.
    Take note of:
    - How much less code you are writing.
    - How readable Markdown vs. HTML is.

    Once you're done, go ahead and submit.
    You don't need to paste the code back in here.

    -->

    <h1>My Fabulous Recipe</h1>

    <p>This recipe for <strong>cereal and milk</strong> has been passed down my family for months.</p>

    <h2>Ingredients</h2>

    <ul>
        <li>Cereal (you can find cool cereals <a href="www.example.com/coolcereals">here</a>)</li>
        <li>Milk</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Directions</h2>

    <p>If I were writing these out as <em>code</em>, it might look something like this:</p>

    <pre><code>if bowl is empty:
        add cereal
    if bowl only has cereal in it:
        add milk
    </code></pre>
    </body>



## Document Everything!





