# Review A Repo's History

## Intro

* git log

Display information about existing commits

* git show

Display information about given commits


## Displaying A Repository's Commits

### Git Status & Opening The Project
You can see that git status tells us that there's "nothing to commit, working directory clean". That means we're good to go ahead and check out the project!

So open the project in your favorite code editor. If you haven't yet, take a minute or two to look at the project – look over the CSS and the JavaScript files, but look particularly at the HTML file.

### Navigating The Log
If you're not used to a pager on the command line, navigating in Less can be a bit odd. Here are some helpful keys:

* to scroll down, press
  * j or ↓ to move down one line at a time
  * d to move by half the page screen
  * f to move by a whole page screen
* to scroll up, press
  * k or ↑ to move _up_ one line at a time
  * u to move by half the page screen
   *b to move by a whole page screen
* press q to quit out of the log (returns to the regular command prompt)

### Git Log Recap

Let's do a quick recap of the git log command. The git log command is used to display all of the commits of a repository.

    $ git log


By default, this command displays:

* the SHA
* the author
* the date
* and the message

...of every commit in the repository. I stress the "By default" part of what Git displays because the git log command can display a lot more information than just this.

Git uses the command line pager, Less, to page through all of the information. The important keys for Less are:

* to scroll down by a line, use j or ↓
* to scroll up by a line, use k or ↑
* to scroll down by a page, use the spacebar or the Page Down button
* to scroll up by a page, use b or the Page Up button
* to quit, use q

## Changing How Git Log Displays Information

We've been looking closely at all the detailed information that git log displays. But now, take a step back and look at all of the information as a whole.

Let's think about some of these questions:

* the SHA - git log will display the complete SHA for every single commit. Each SHA is unique, so we don't really need to see the entire SHA. We could get by perfectly fine with knowing just the first 6-8 characters. Wouldn't it be great if we could save some space and show just the first 5 or so characters of the SHA?
* the author - the git log output displays the commit author for every single commit! It could be different for other repositories that have multiple people collaborating together, but for this one, there's only one person making all of the commits, so the commit author will be identical for all of them. Do we need to see the author for each one? What if we wanted to hide that information?
* the date - By default, git log will display the date for each commit. But do we really care about the commit's date? Knowing the date might be important occasionally, but typically knowing the date isn't vitally important and can be ignored in a lot of cases. Is there a way we could hide that to save space?
* the commit message - this is one of the most important parts of a commit message...we usually always want to see this
What could we do here to not waste a lot of space and make the output smaller? We can use a flag.

> TIP: This isn't a course on the command line, but a flag is used to alter how a program functions. For example, the ls command will list all of the files in the current directory. The ls command has a -l flag (i.e. ls -l) that runs the same ls command but alters how it works; it now displays the information in the long format (the -l for long).

### git log --oneline
The git log command has a flag that can be used to alter how it displays the repository's information. That flag is --oneline:

    $ git log --oneline
    
* lists one commit per line
* shows the first 7 characters of the commit's SHA
* shows the commit's message

### git log --stat Intro
The git log command has a flag that can be used to display the files that have been changed in the commit, as well as the number of lines that have been added or deleted. The flag is --stat ("stat" is short for "statistics"):

    $ git log --stat

* displays the file(s) that have been modified
* displays the number of lines that have been added/removed
* displays a summary line with the total number of modified files and lines that have been added/removed  
    
    
## Viewing File Changes

### git log -p
The git log command has a flag that can be used to display the actual changes made to a file. The flag is --patch which can be shortened to just -p:

    $ git log -p

* displays the files that have been modified
* displays the location of the lines that have been added/removed
* displays the actual changes that have been made

    
### Annotated git log -p Output
Using the image above, let's do a quick recap of the git log -p output:

* 🔵 - the file that is being displayed
* 🔶 - the hash of the first version of the file and the hash of the second version of the file
  * not usually important, so it's safe to ignore

* ❤️ - the old version and current version of the file
* 🔍 - the lines where the file is added and how many lines there are
  * -15,83 indicates that the old version (represented by the -) started at line 15 and that the file had 83 lines
  * +15,85 indicates that the current version (represented by the +) starts at line 15 and that there are now 85 lines...these 85 lines are shown in the patch below

* ✏️ - the actual changes made in the commit
  * lines that are red and start with a minus (-) were in the original version of the file but have been removed by the commit
  * lines that are green and start with a plus (+) are new lines that have been added in the commit    


https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff#_generating_patches_with_p
    
## Viewing A Specific Commit


### New Command: git show

The other command that shows a specific commit is git show:

    $ git show
Running it like the example above will only display the most recent commit. Typically, a SHA is provided as a final argument:

    $ git show fdf5493
    

### What does git show do?
The git show command will show only one commit. So don't get alarmed when you can't find any other commits - it only shows one. The output of the git show command is exactly the same as the git log -p command. So by default, git show displays:

* the commit
* the author
* the date
* the commit message
* the patch information


However, git show can be combined with most of the other flags we've looked at:

* --stat - to show the how many files were changed and the number of lines that were added/removed
* -p or --patch - this the default, but if --stat is used, the patch won't display, so pass -p to add it again
* -w - to ignore changes to whitespace







