# Introduction to CNN 

## Interview with Sebastian 

" I know that you've done a lot of research with convolutional neural networks. Can you tell us a little bit more about what they are? "

> So convolutional networks are a very smart way to a structure in network, and built tin this was called an invariance.
> So for example, if you take the idea of a scence of recognition, you have an image in front of you and want to understand "is Sebastian in the image? " 
> The recognition of my head, my face, is the same no matter where you are.
> That invariance, that's a kind of location variance, is hard-coded using convolution neural networks.
>
> So you have a repetition in the network, the structure in network and make sure of whatever you learn for the corner of that image works up here.
>

" So can you tell us a little bit about some of the application that you can see for CNN's? "

> People have used some massively for anything in image and video, includiing medical imaging.
> They are also being used now for language technologies, where people use deep learning for understanding and to replicate in language, and the applications here are limitless.
>



## Introduction

CNNs have proven to achieve higher accuracies when classifying images than the symbol period dense neural networks.

For this reason, CNNs have become extremely useful and they're actually the primary reason for breakthoughs in computer vision applications using machine learning.

The two main concepts in a Convolutional Neural Network :

* convulutions
* maxpooling


## Convolutions 

## Max Pooling
* max pooling
* stride

## Recap
We just learned about convolutions and max pooling.

A convolution is the process of applying a filter (“kernel”) to an image. Max pooling is the process of reducing the size of the image through downsampling.

As you will see in the following Colab notebook, convolutional layers can be added to the neural network model using the Conv2D layer type in Keras. This layer is similar to the Dense layer, and has weights and biases that need to be tuned to the right values. The Conv2D layer also has kernels (filters) whose values need to be tuned as well. So, in a Conv2D layer the values inside the filter matrix are the variables that get tuned in order to produce the right output.

Here are some of terms that were introduced in this lesson:

* CNNs: Convolutional neural network. That is, a network which has at least one convolutional layer. A typical CNN also includes other types of layers, such as pooling layers and dense layers.
* Convolution: The process of applying a kernel (filter) to an image
* Kernel / filter: A matrix which is smaller than the input, used to transform the input into chunks
* Padding: Adding pixels of some value, usually 0, around the input image
* Pooling The process of reducing the size of an image through downsampling.There are several types of pooling layers. For example, average pooling converts many values into a single value by taking the average. However, maxpooling is the most common.
* Maxpooling: A pooling process in which many values are converted into a single value by taking the maximum value from among them.
* Stride: the number of pixels to slide the kernel (filter) across the image.
* Downsampling: The act of reducing the size of an image



## Summary
In this lesson we learned about Convolutional Neural Networks. We learned how convolutions and max pooling works. You created and trained a Convolutional Neural Network from scratch. We saw that our CNN was able to perform better than the neural network we created in the previous lesson.

If you want to know more details about how CNNs works make sure to check out this Comprehensive Guide to Convolutional Neural Networks.
https://towardsdatascience.com/a-comprehensive-guide-to-convolutional-neural-networks-the-eli5-way-3bd2b1164a53

























